# Unreleased

- **Breaking** `CpuAccessibleBuffer` now uses `RwLock` from `parking_lot`.
- **Breaking** The `Kind` and `SubpassContents` types have been moved to the root of the `command_buffer` module.
- **Breaking** On `AutoCommandBufferBuilder`, the methods `begin_render_pass` and `next_subpass` now take `SubpassContents` instead of a boolean value.
- **Breaking** The `CommandBuffer` trait now has an additional required method, `kind`.
- **Breaking** Update dependency `winit` 0.22 -> 0.23
- **Breaking** Added an Option to the ComputePipeline constructor to enable pipeline caching.
- Add support for 8bit storage.
- Some safety checks have been added to `execute_commands`/`execute_commands_from_vec` on `AutoCommandBufferBuilder`, but not everything is checked yet so it's still unsafe to call.
- Added two vulkano-win features `raw-window-handle_` and `winit_` to be able to use vulkano without winit.
- Added function to create surface from `RawWindowHandle`.
- Added a `properties` method to `Format`.
- Added additional device feature flags for enabling SPIR-V related capabilities.
- Added method `copy_buffer_dimensions` that allows copying parts of buffers containing arrays.
- Added `debug_marker_begin`, `debug_marker_end` and `debug_marker_insert` to `AutoCommandBufferBuilder`.
- Fixed surface creation function on Windows(PR #1410).
- Travis CI Linux Nightly job temporary disabled until #1423 resolved.
- Renamed feature from `shader_f3264` to `shader_float64`.
- Added method `build_with_cache` to the `GraphicsPipelineBuilder` that enables pipeline caching.
- Check usage bits on image when creating image view.
- Fixing an assertion panic in the SyncCommandBuffer. If the buffer encountered an error while locking the necessary resources, it would unlock all previously locked resources. Images were unlocked incorrectly and an assert in the image unlock function would panic.

# Version 0.19.0 (2020-06-01)

- **Breaking** AutoCommandBufferBuilder methods now take a mutable reference to `self` instead of taking ownership
- Update `smallvec` 1.2 -> 1.4
- Added additional `ImageUsage` constructor functions, `color_attachment`, `depth_stencil_attachment`, `transient_color_attachment` & `transient_depth_stencil_attachment`.
- Update dependency `half` 1.5 -> 1.6
- Update MacOS dependency `metal` 0.17 -> 0.18
- Added additional checks around image/device compatibility.
- Fixed all warnings as of Rust 1.43.1
- Provides new API to fetch additional information of the Physical Device from the `PhysicalDeviceProperties2KHR` structure whenever it possible. In the current implementation only `subgroupSize` property is fetching. This interface can be extended in the future to obtain more metadata depending on community needs.
- `dynamic-local-size` compute shader example added showing how to utilize `subgroupSize` to compute and set shader's local size in run time.
- Fixed Vulkano Shaders bug when compute shader local group layout values bound to specialization constants. Now it is possible to define the layout in form of `layout(local_size_x_id = 12, local_size_y_id = 13, local_size_z = 1) in;` and then set the values as `SpecializationConstants {constant_12: 8, constant_13: 4, ...}`.
- Allow applications to access the instance and device pointers
- Add a helper function '.boxed()' on the `GpuFuture` that is short for `Box::new(yourFuture) as Box<dyn GpuFuture>`

# Version 0.18.0 (2020-03-11)

- **Breaking** Update dependency `winit` 0.21 -> 0.22
- Update dependency `half` 1.4 -> 1.5
- Update dependency `smallvec` 0.6 -> 1.2

# Version 0.17.0 (2020-02-09)

- **Breaking** Swapchain::recreate_with_dimension() is now Swapchain::recreate_with_dimensions()
- **Breaking** Sync::SharingMode::Exclusive(queue_family: u32) is now Sync::SharingMode::Exclusive.
- **Breaking** Added Swapchain::with_old_swapchain() - same as previous Swapchain::new(), if an oldswapchain needs to be used
- **Breaking** Swapchain::new() now doesnt need to have the old_swapchain parameter anymore but requires the ColorSpace
- **Breaking** Decouple descriptor sets from pipeline
- **Breaking** Update Winit to 0.21.0
- **Breaking** Add `host_cached` field to all `CpuAccessibleBuffer` initializers to allow the user to perfer host cached memory.
- **Breaking** Added `fullscreen_exclusive` field to `Swapchain` initializers to allow the user to specify how fullscreen exclusivity should be handled.
    + Swapchain methods added: `Swapchain::acquire_fullscreen_exclusive()`, `Swapchain::release_fullscreen_exclusive()`, and `Swapchain::is_fullscreen_exclusive()`
- Add function `execute_commands_from_vec` to handle submission of multiple secondary command buffers.
- Allow `DebugCallback` to be sent between threads
- Pipeline barriers are now correctly inserted when a resource is used more than two times.
- Update MacOS dependency cocoa to 0.20
- Fixed code generated by `shader!` macro so that SSBO's are supported again (broken in 0.16.0).
- Added Swapchain::surface() - which returns the saved surface
- Propogate new lines correctly in shader compile errors.
- `Queue` and `QueueFamily` now implement `PartialEq` and `Eq`
- `Swapchain::acquire_next_image()`` now returns ``(image_id, suboptimal, aquire_future)``
    + *suboptimal indicates that the swapchain is usable, but should be recreated*
- Fixed Join Future implementation to not submit joined command buffers twice.
- The traits `GraphicsPipelineAbstract` and `DescriptorSet` now require `DeviceOwned`.
- Added `PartialEq`, `Eq` and `Hash` implementations to all types involved in a draw call, including:
  - `Instance`, `Device`, `GraphicsPipeline` and `dyn GraphicsPipelineAbstract`
  - `UnsafeBuffer` and all types implementing `BufferAccess`
  - `UnsafeImage`, `UnsafeImageView` and all types implementing `ImageAccess` or `ImageViewAccess`
  - All types implementing `DescriptorSet`

# Version 0.16.0 (2019-11-01)

- Fixed bug in examples causing OutOfHostMemory errors
- Replaced `VK_EXT_debug_report` `VK_EXT_debug_marker` with `VK_EXT_debug_utils`.
- Update MacOS dependencies metal to 0.17 and cocoa to 0.19
- Added dynamic stencil elements to `DynamicState`
- Fixed `ImageDimensions::mipmap_dimensions` and `max_mipmaps` in cases where the original size is not a power of two.
- Shader includes now work on Windows.
- **Breaking Change** Shader include directories passed to the `shader!` macro are now relative to the crates `Cargo.toml`
- Add support for `VK_KHR_16bit_storage` and `VK_KHR_storage_buffer_storage_class` device extensions.
- Update dependencies: lazy_static, half, syn, quote & proc-macro2
- Swapchain can now be recreated with dimensions of corresponding surface using `recreate()`.
- Added `raw_loaded_extensions()` to `Instance` to allow querying of all extensions, not just known ones.
- **Breaking Change** `loaded_extensions()` on `Instance` no longer returns a reference.
- Add support for GLSL macro defines to the `shader!` macro.
- Switch to Vulkan 1.1 and inherently SpirV 1.3 (shaderc default version for vulkan 1.1)

# Version 0.15.0 (2019-10-18)

*Yanked*

# Version 0.14.0 (2019-08-17)

- Update shaderc to 0.6. This again allows to use locally installed libraries which reduces the build-time significantly on Arch/Voidlinux (see https://github.com/google/shaderc-rs/issues/58)
- Removed faulty debug_assert in `SwapchainAcquireFuture::drop`.
- Compressed texture formats can now be uploaded using `ImmutableImage::from_iter`, `ImmutableImage::from_buffer`, `AutoCommandBuilder::copy_buffer_to_image_dimensions`,
  and `AutoCommandBuilder::copy_buffer_to_image`.

# Version 0.13.0 (2019-07-02)

This is an emergency breaking breaking change. It fixes Undefined Behaviour that was preventing the compilation of Vulkano on the latest rust nightlies.

- Structs that have the `impl_vertex` macro applied to them, now also need to `#[derive(Default)]`.

# Version 0.12.0 (2019-05-24)

- Update shaderc to 0.5.  New shaderc has improved pre-built options for libshaderc that significantly reduce package build time and are appropriate for use in CI
- `QueueFamily::explicitly_supports_tranfers` only returns true if `vk::QUEUE_TRANSFER_BIT` is set instead of also always returning true.  Removed `supports_transfers`.
- Update to winit 0.19
- Add support for `#include "..."` and `#include <...>` directives within source
  files.
- Add a `union` method for the extensions types.
- Make `BufferUsage` derive `PartialEq` and `Eq`
- Fix a compiler error in struct code generated by the `shader!` macro.
- Improve inference of image layout transitions and in turn image memory barrier
  behaviour.

# Version 0.11.1 (2018-11-16)

- Expose `CopyImageError` and `DrawIndexedIndirectError`.

# Version 0.11.0 (2018-11-08) (**yanked** because vk-sys 0.3.4 was accidentally breaking vulkano 0.10)

- Update to winit 0.18
- Export features and device extensions from the device module instead of the instance module
    +   `instance::Features` -> `device::Features`
    +   `instance::DeviceExtensions` -> `device::DeviceExtensions`
    +   `instance::RawDeviceExtensions` -> `device::RawDeviceExtensions`
- Added `vulkano_shaders::shader!` proc macro, use this instead of `vulkano_shader_deriver::VulkanoShaders`.
- The entire `vulkano_shader_derive` crate is deprecated.
- `vulkano_shaders::{reflect, compile, Error}` are no longer public.
- Remove vulkano_shaders::build_glsl_shaders
- Removed mir support, as it is being removed from the vulkan spec.
- Split `PersistentDescriptorSetError::MissingUsage` into `MissingImageUsage` and `MissingBufferUsage`
  each with a matching enum indicating the usage that was missing.
- Fix instance_count when using draw_index with instance buffers
- Added a `reinterpret` function to `BufferSlice`
- Made `AttributeInfo` derive `Copy`, `Clone` and `Debug`
- Use [google/shaderc](https://github.com/google/shaderc-rs) for shader compilation
- Reject generation of rust types for SPIR-V arrays that would have incorrect array stride.
- Removed the `Layout` prefix of the descriptions used for a render pass.
- Implemented DescriptorSetCollection for `Vec<T>` which allows easier use of construction them for usage when drawing.

# Version 0.10.0 (2018-08-10)

- Use dynamically loaded `libvulkan` like on other platforms instead of linking to MoltenVK on macOS
- Updated winit to version 0.17.
- Allow custom implementations of `RenderPassDesc` to specify `VK_SUBPASS_EXTERNAL` as a dependency source or destination
- Added `vulkano_win::create_vk_surface` which allows creating a surface safely without taking ownership of
  the window.
- `AutoCommandBufferBuilder::draw` and friends no longer consume the `DynamicState` argument, allowing reuse between calls.
- `Instance::new` and `Instance::with_loader` now take in the layers as an iterator of borrowed `str`s, not of references to
borrowed `str`s.

# Version 0.9.0 (2018-03-13)

- Updated winit to version 0.11.

# Version 0.8.0 (2018-03-11)

- Changed `ShaderInterfaceMismatchError` to be more verbose.
- Allow depth/stencil images to be used with `AutoCommandBufferBuilder::copy_image_to_buffer()`
- Allow `Surface` to own the window it references.
- Clear value validation for `AutoCommandBufferBuilder::begin_render_pass()`
- Fix occasional truncation of glslang_validator when glsl-to-spirv is rebuilt
- Fix linking against MoltenVK >= 0.19.0
- Fix panic on DeviceLost error after resizing swapchain on nvidia/amd hardware
- Added `AutoCommandBufferBuilder::copy_image`
- Added `VulkanObject::TYPE` to look up the `DebugReportObjectTypeEXT` of an object
- Added `Device::set_object_name` and `Device::set_object_name_raw`
- Added `GraphicsPipelineBuilder::with_auto_layout` to simplify use of dynamic buffers.

# Version 0.7.3 (2018-02-10)

*Yanked*

# Version 0.7.2 (2017-10-09)

- Allow `impl_vertex!` to support generic structs.
- Added `GraphicsPipelineBuilder::with_pipeline_layout`.
- Fixed creating a buffer view not checking the `min_texel_buffer_offset_alignment` limit.
- Added support for loading the `VK_EXT_debug_marker` extension and adding debug markers to
  `UnsafeCommandBufferBuilder`
- Changed `GraphicsPipelineBuilder` to default to a buffer-less vertex input.
- Deprecated `pipeline::input_assembly::InputAssembly`.

# Version 0.7.1 (2017-09-28)

- Fixed an HiDPI scaling issue on MacOS in vulkano-win.
- Fixed `le()` and `ge()` for `DescriptorsCount`, which also fixes a potential memory leak when
  allocating descriptor sets.
- Fixed the `ordered_passes_renderpass!` macro not working properly when using `resolve`.
- Added an optional `resolve` entry in `pass` for `single_pass_renderpass!`, for resolving
  multisampled attachments into non-multisampled attachments.
- Fixed the value of `rasterizationSamples` not corresponding to the render pass.
- Added `GraphicsPipelineBuilder::sample_shading_disabled`, `sample_shading_enabled`,
  `alpha_to_coverage_disabled`, `alpha_to_coverage_enabled`, `alpha_to_one_disabled` and
  `alpha_to_one_enabled`. Added `GraphicsPipelineCreationError::SampleRateShadingFeatureNotEnabled`
  and `AlphaToOneFeatureNotEnabled`.
- Deprecated `pipeline::multisample::Multisample`.

# Version 0.7.0 (2017-09-21)

- Added `RuntimePipelineDesc`, an implementation of `PipelineLayoutDesc` that makes creating custom
  layouts easier.
- Changed `CpuBufferPool::next()` and `chunk()` to return a `Result` in case of an error when
  allocating or mapping memory.
- Changed `CommandBufferExecError::AccessError` to provide a hint of where the error occurs.
- Added `vulkano::pipeline::vertex::BufferlessDefinition` and `BufferlessVertices` to enable
  bufferless drawing.
- Changed `ImageAccess::try_gpu_lock` and `unlock()` to verify whether the image layout is correct,
  especially at the first usage of an image.
- Changed `BufferAccess::conflict_*` and `ImageAccess::conflict_*` to forbid querying a specific
  range of the resource.
- Fixed `layers` argument validation in `Swapchain::new_inner`.
- Added a 32-bit word constructor for `ShaderModule` (`ShaderModule::from_words`).
- Changed the various `is_superset_of` functions to return a `Result` instead of a `bool`.

# Version 0.6.2 (2017-09-06)

- Added checking compatibility between the descriptor sets and the pipeline object when adding a
  draw or compute command.
- Fixed several bugs in the validation checks of `blit_image`.
- Fixed `blit_image`, `copy_buffer_to_image` and `copy_image_to_buffer` not taking the mipmap level
  into account when checking for the correct image dimensions.
- Added `ImageDimensions::mipmap_dimensions()` and `ImageDimensions::num_mipmaps()`.
- Added an implementation of `DeviceOwned` for `QueuesIter` and `Queue`.
- Fixed the standard command pool and descriptor pool being destroyed too often.
- Added `#[allow(non_snake_case)]` to structs generated by vulkano-shaders.
